Update Cortex to Mimir 2.3 migration docs (#3662)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/mimir/migration-guide/migrating-from-cortex.md

## Migrating to Grafana Mimir using Helm

You can migrate to the Grafana Mimir Helm chart (`grafana/mimir-distributed` v3.1.0) from the Cortex Helm chart
(`cortex-helm/cortex` v1.7.0).

### Before you begin

- Ensure that you are running the v1.7.0 release of the Cortex Helm chart.
- Ensure that you are running ingesters using a Kubernetes StatefulSet.

> - We are using `yq` v4 to parse and mofidy yaml files.

Author: @dimitarvdimitrov I added yq version requirement here.

Reviewer: i was referring to the two yq programs

https://github.com/kislyuk/yq
and
https://github.com/mikefarah/yq

iirc they have a different API

Author: I always use mikefarah yq and just got to know there is another yq implementation with sizeable github stars. I will update the guide with recommendations on which yq to use. I tested both have same api to get field and to delete fields. However kilyuk yq is spitting out json (which is subset of yaml anyway) instead of yaml.

## Migrating to Grafana Mimir using Helm

> You can update to the Grafana Mimir Helm chart from the Cortex Helm chart. Specifically we will upgrade cortex-helm/cortex
> v1.7.0 to grafana/mimir-distributed v3.1.0 helm chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can update to the Grafana Mimir Helm chart (`grafana/mimir-distributed` v3.1.0) from the Cortex Helm chart (`cortex-helm/cortex` v1.7.0).
```

Reviewer 3: nice catch, I think we should write migrate to be consistent with the title

Author: Updated with 
```
You can migrate to the Grafana Mimir Helm chart (`grafana/mimir-distributed` v3.1.0) from the Cortex Helm chart (`cortex-helm/cortex` v1.7.0).

```

      enabled: true
  ```

>   Ingester needs storage for the WAL and to form blocks for upload. The WAL was optional in Cortex with chunks, but not optional in Mimir.
>   A statefulset is the most convenient way to arrange that each pod gets a storage volume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The ingester needs storage capacity for write-ahead-logging (WAL) and to form blocks for uploading. The WAL was optional in Cortex with chunks, but not optional in Mimir.
  A statefulset is the most convenient way to make sure that each pod gets a storage volume.
```

>   A statefulset is the most convenient way to arrange that each pod gets a storage volume.

Reviewer 3: I'd remove this sentence, we use statfulset to have consistent naming of pods and therefore consistent hashing . But it's all implementation detail the user does not have to know.

Author: Yes, I can add naming consistency is also other reason I forgot to add. Should I add?

I am thinking to add the persistence requitement because I was curious myself why we want to use statefulset. User doesn't need to know the internal detail indeed, but I believe this information still useful.

Do you still think I should remove this whole paragraph?

Reviewer 3: agreed IRL that this can stay

>   A statefulset is the most convenient way to make sure that each pod gets a storage volume.

Reviewer: that's the name used in k8s docs
```suggestion
  A StatefulSet is the most convenient way to make sure that each Pod gets a storage volume.
```

   b. Install the recording and alerting rules into the ruler or a Prometheus server.

> 2. Run the following command to add the Grafana Helm chart repository:

Reviewer 2: Please use `1. ` for each number if feasible, so that numbered steps are more future proofed. (It might not be feasible.)

Author: Oh I just got to know if markdown will automatically handle the numbering step. Will update this.

   b. Use `mimirtool` to update the configuration.

   ```bash

>    mimirtool config convert --gem --yaml-file cortex.yaml --yaml-out mimir.yaml

Reviewer 3: why is `--gem` needed now for cortex?

Author: Accidental addition. Have been working with gem migration documentation at the same time.

   ```

>    c. Clean up generated yaml config

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   c. Clean up the generated YAML configuration.
```

>    We have to remove some fields generated by `mimirtool config convert` for helm chart installation, since
>    mimir-distributed helm chart has already set the default value for them. Use the following script to clean up
>    those fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   You have to remove some fields that are generated by `mimirtool config convert` for the Helm chart installation, because the
   `mimir-distributed` Helm chart has already set the default value for them. Use the following script to clean up
   those fields:
```

   ```bash
   # require yq v4
   yq -i 'del(.activity_tracker.filepath,.alertmanager.data_dir,.compactor.data_dir)' mimir.yaml
   ```

>    d. Place the updated configuration under the `mimir.structuredConfig` key at the top level of your Helm values file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   d. At the top level of your Helm values file, put the updated configuration under the `mimir.structuredConfig` key.
```

>    d. Place the updated configuration under the `mimir.structuredConfig` key at the top level of your Helm values file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   d. Place the updated configuration under the `mimir.structuredConfig` key in your custom Helm values file.
```

Author: Will apply the change

>    > **Note:** We added `mimir.structuredConfig` in mimir-distributed v3.0.0. This new field allows overriding specific
>    > configuration without the need to rewrite the whole block string literal like in `mimir.config`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > **Note:** The `mimir.structuredConfig` field, which is added in v3.0.0, allows you to override a specific
   > configuration without needing to rewrite the whole block string literal, such as in `mimir.config`.
```

   In your Helm values file:

   ```yaml
   mimir:

>      structuredConfig: <CONFIGURATION FILE CONTENTS>

Reviewer 3: hmm, I feel like we should give some example so people see how indent things and how it will look like

Author: Added an example. However the position `<CONFIGURATION FILE CONTENTS>` is always placed there by `make docs`.

   b. Use `mimirtool` to update the configuration.

   ```bash
   mimirtool config convert --yaml-file cortex.yaml --yaml-out mimir.yaml
   ```

   c. Clean up the generated YAML configuration.
   You have to remove some fields that are generated by `mimirtool config convert` for the Helm chart installation, because the
   mimir-distributed Helm chart has already set the default value for them. Use the following script to clean up
   those fields:

   ```bash

>    # require yq v4

Reviewer: IIRC there are two different YQs. Can you include a link to the one we're using? may also help to add installing it as a separate step?

Author: The latest version is v4. I will add a step in the "Before you begin" section to tell the user to install yq v4. However, I feel that adding installing guide for yq is out of the scope of this guide.

>    yq -i 'del(.activity_tracker.filepath,.alertmanager.data_dir,.compactor.data_dir)' mimir.yaml

Reviewer: Nice idea. Should we also mention all the token paths too? such as `ingester.ring.tokens_file_path`. And the rest of the paths that use `/data` in the chart - e.g. `blocks_storage.bucket_store.sync_dir` and `blocks_storage.tsdd.dir`?

Author: The purpose of yq script above is to "clean up" default value that can result to failed installation, i.e pointing writable folder to non `/data` folder. 

`.activity_tracker.filepath,.alertmanager.data_dir,.compactor.data_dir` are the fields that has "wrong" default value  which set to folder outside `/data` during my testing using minimal overrided configuration. Therefore I added these yq step to clean up that "wrong" default value on those 3 fields only. 

The additional fields that you mention has a sane default value. I.e tokens_file_path default value is `""` and all `sync_dir` folder default value in cortex helm are already pointing to `/data` sub folder.

Author: Yes, your explanation makes sense for the `ingester.ring.tokens_file_path` field. I will add that to the list to be cleaned up too.

Author: Yes, your explanation makes sense for the `ingester.ring.tokens_file_path` field. I will add that to the list to be cleaned up too.

Author: Added for rule-path and runtime-config too.

   In your Helm values file:

   ```yaml
   mimir:
     config: |
       <CONFIGURATION FILE CONTENTS>
     structuredConfig: <CONFIGURATION FILE CONTENTS>
   ```

   d. Merge the templated configuration from the `mimir-distributed` `values.yaml` file.
   The Cortex Helm chart sets some additional configuration using flags.
   The Grafana Mimir Helm chart sets that additional configuration in the configuration file.

   - Set `frontend_worker.frontend_address` to `'{{ template "mimir.fullname" . }}-query-frontend-headless.{{ .Release.Namespace }}.svc:{{ include "mimir.serverGrpcListenPort" . }}'`.
   - Set `ruler.alertmanager_url` to `'dnssrvnoa+http://_http-metrics._tcp.{{ template "mimir.fullname" . }}-alertmanager-headless.{{ .Release.Namespace }}.svc.cluster.local/alertmanager'`.
   - If you want to use memberlist as the ring KV store, set `memberlist.join_members` to `['{{ include "mimir.fullname" . }}-gossip-ring']`.
   - Append the caching configuration to `blocks_storage.bucket_store`.
   - Set `ingester.ring.num_tokens` to the existing value you set in `ingester.lifecycler.num_tokens`.

>      This is especially important if you are using the default Cortex Helm chart values as it sets this to `512`.

Reviewer: Are these instructions no longer relevant? I think they are because now they are set in the default value of `mimir.config`. But now this means that users should delete them from their structuredConfig, doesn't it?

Author: The users can delete them from their structured config but if it is also fine if they keep it because the final outcome is the same. Once template is expanded into string literal, it is difficult to track which expanded config refers to which template line. Hence I don't see it is worthed to track which line to delete. The only downside is now the structuredConfig will be a bit fatter than what it should be.

Reviewer: my other consideration was that if we decide to change them in the future, it will be more difficult for some users and more people will have to take manual steps to go through it. i'm kind of ok to drop them. Otherwise you can include them in the `yq` command.

We can also change mimirtool config to have a `--helm` flag which does this removal automatically, but that will be more work.

Author: I think I just got to understand your original comment now. In that case, what I can do is add `frontend_worker.frontend_address` and `ruler.alertmanager_url` to the fields that yq will remove, therefore it will take the default values. 

I don't think we need to do anything on `memberlist.join_members` which something that user need to decide and `ingester.ring.num_tokens` which will be handled by mimir tool convert.

     podManagementPolicy: "OrderedReady"
   ```

>    f. Set the `nameOverride` to `cortex`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   f. Set the `nameOverride` parameter to `cortex`.
```

   nameOverride: "cortex"
   ```

   g. Disable MinIO.

>    If you are migrating from Cortex, use your existing object storage, and disable MinIO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

nit: Is this what the whole article is about?

Reviewer: but if you decide to drop line 290, then I think the previous line may give some context as to why they have to disable minio - "The Grafana Mimir Helm chart enables MinIO by default for convenience during first time installs." So maybe keep that?

Author: Yes make sense. I am editing the paragraph to give more context on why we want them to disable minio.
